Now you've created your own
CrateDB cluster and loaded the
course data. It's time to run
some simple SQL queries and
play around with the data on
your own.
Here in the CrateDB Cloud
Console I've got a query that
I'll paste in and this is going
to query the three_eleven_calls table.
So that table of reports from
citizens about issues with
infrastructure in the city and
what we're going to do is ask it
to summarise the number of calls
where the type features the word
pothole by day of week.
In this table, the day of week
is in the createddayofweek
field and the weekdays start
with Sunday, which is day one.
I'll run the query here and we
can see that the most potholes
1440 are reported on Tuesdays
and the least are reported on
days one and seven, Saturday and
Sunday over the weekend.
Which I guess makes sense as
people aren't travelling so much
on the weekend because they're
not going to work.
Next, let's try a query that
uses our taxis and taxi rides
data.
I want to know which taxi
operated the taxi ride or the
trip that had the highest total
cost.
So here I'm selecting some
fields from the taxis table and
I want the vehicleid from the
taxis table to match the vehicleid
from the taxi_rides table
where the totalcost field has
the highest value and for this
we use CrateDB's max_by.
This returns the value of its
first parameter, so vehicleid
at the point at which the 2nd
parameter, totalcost, was the
highest.
When I run this query, we'll see
that Vehicle 2417 performed the
trip with the highest overall
total cost, and it was a white
Toyota Camry.
Finally, let's try a query that
uses our community_areas table.
Recall that in the
community_areas table, we have details of
each of the 77 neighbourhoods
that make up the city of
Chicago, including their
boundaries, population, and
historical information.
There's two airports in Chicago,
O'Hare and Midway.
Imagine that an airline needs to
move an aircraft from one of
these airports to another, and
it follows a path as shown on
the map to the right.
What we're going to do now is
paste a query into the console
here and ask CrateDB which
community areas with a
population of more than 30,000
people does this flight
pass over?
So here I'm selecting the name
and then the population which is
inside an object in the
community_areas table.
So we're using details
population to access that.
And then what I want to do is
match records whose boundaries
field which is a Geo Polygon of
the boundaries of the
neighbourhood intersect with the
flight.
And the flight here is
represented by a line string in
Well Known Text format and that
contains all of the lat long
points of the flight.
And then finally, we want
population to be greater than
30,000 and I've asked CrateDB to
order the results set by
population.
So what we're going to get when
we run this query is the
neighbourhoods or community
areas that this flight passes
over that have more than 30,000
people ordered by population
descending.
So the community with the
greatest population first.
Let's run the query now and we
can see that Uptown is an area
that this flight passes over.
It has the highest population
and down here Greater Grand
Crossing has the lowest
population of those with more
than 30,000.
I would encourage you to go and
play with the data set yourself
and refer to the CrateDB
documentation whilst doing so.
It's good to get familiar with
this data, run some queries and
explore it for yourself.